docs/kata/gekisai-dai-ichi.md, before:

---
title: Gekisai Dai Ichi
name: Gekisai Dai Ichi
kanji: <ruby><rb>撃</rb><rt>げき</rt><rb>砕</rb><rt>さい</rt><rb>第</rb><rt>だい</rt><rb>一</rb><rt>いち</rt></ruby>
alternate_name1: Fukyu Gata Ni
alternate_kanji1: <ruby><rb>普</rb><rt>ふ</rt><rb>及</rb><rt>きゅう</rt><rb>型</rb><rt>がた</rt><rb>二</rb><rt>に</rt></ruby>
origin: Okinawa
creator: Chojun Miyagi
created: 1940s
learnt_at: 10th Kyu/Ungraded (White Belt)
required_for_grading: 9th Kyu and above

categories:
  - Kata
---

# Gekisai Dai Ichi

<Infobox/>

The first [kata](/) taught in modern Goju Ryu. It was originally created to help popularise Karate.

## Name Meaning

### Gekisai Dai Ichi

When you interpret the kanji characters for 'Gekisai' individually, you get something more like "Attack & Destroy".
Taken as a single word, Gekisai（撃砕）means "Pulverising​". Dai Ichi（第一）means "Number One".
So "Attack & Destory Number One" or "Pulverising Number One", the former is the more popular interpretation.
The reason for the "number one" is because Gekisai Dai Ichi is from a pair of kata, the other being Gekisai Dai Ni（撃砕第二）.

### Fukyu Gata Ni

Fukyu (普及) means "Popularisation", "Gata" is another way of saying "Kata" and 二 is "Two".  
This name means "Popularisation Kata Two". For more info on this, see the history section.

## Kata History

## How To

<Wiki-Video url="https://youtu.be/YtcRO7zceIg" />

### Important Points

- Head, hand and foot are all in sync when you perform the first chudan yoko uke of the two blocking sequences.
- After each mae geri there is a stomp.
- When performing the step-up-and-block between the two morote zuki, maintain the same height as your zenkutsu dachi stances.

### Kata Techniques

- [Jodan Uke](/)
- [Oi Zuki|Jodan Oi Zuki](/)
- [Gedan Barai](/)
- [Chudan Uke](/)
- [Mae Geri|Gedan Mae Geri](/)
- [Fumikomi Geri](/)
- [Hiji Ate](/)
- [Ura Ken Uchi](/)
- [Gyaku Zuki|Chudan Gyaku Zuki](/)
- [Ashi Barai](/)
- [Shuto Uchi](/)
- [Morote Zuki](/)

### Kata Stances

- [Musubi Dachi](/)
- [Sanchin Dachi](/)
- [Han Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Shiko Dachi](/)
- [Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Hachiji Dachi](/)
- [Heiko Dachi](/)

### Dan Grade Changes

- The chudan yoko uke are muchimi.
- The age uke are more circular in their movements.
- The block between the morote zuki is a otoshi uke instead of chudan yoko uke.

## Bunkai

See [Gekisai Dai Ichi (Bunkai)](/bunkai/gekisai-dai-ichi)

Commit message:

Comment out unused sections. Added in a bit of kata info on various pages. Removed dan grade changes section from kata that are dan grade kata

docs/kata/gekisai-dai-ichi.md, after:

---
title: Gekisai Dai Ichi
name: Gekisai Dai Ichi
kanji: <ruby><rb>撃</rb><rt>げき</rt><rb>砕</rb><rt>さい</rt><rb>第</rb><rt>だい</rt><rb>一</rb><rt>いち</rt></ruby>
alternate_name1: Fukyu Gata Ni
alternate_kanji1: <ruby><rb>普</rb><rt>ふ</rt><rb>及</rb><rt>きゅう</rt><rb>型</rb><rt>がた</rt><rb>二</rb><rt>に</rt></ruby>
origin: Okinawa
creator: Chojun Miyagi
created: 1940s
learnt_at: 10th Kyu/Ungraded (White Belt)
required_for_grading: 9th Kyu and above

categories:
  - Kata
---

# Gekisai Dai Ichi

<Infobox/>

The first [kata](/) taught in modern Goju Ryu. It was created to help popularise Karate. It is the only kata in Goju Ryu that ends with a step forward instead of a step backward.

## Name Meaning

### Gekisai Dai Ichi

When you interpret the kanji characters for 'Gekisai' individually, you get something more like "Attack & Destroy".
Taken as a single word, Gekisai（撃砕）means "Pulverising​". Dai Ichi（第一）means "Number One".
So "Attack & Destory Number One" or "Pulverising Number One", the former is the more popular interpretation.
The reason for the "number one" is because Gekisai Dai Ichi is from a pair of kata, the other being Gekisai Dai Ni（撃砕第二）.

### Fukyu Gata Ni

Fukyu (普及) means "Popularisation", "Gata" is another way of saying "Kata" and 二 is "Two".  
This name means "Popularisation Kata Two". For more info on this, see the history section.

## Kata History

It was created to help popularise Karate in the 1940s by Chojun Miyagi with the help of a Shorin Ryu Sensei. It introduced Jodan Uke into the Goju Ryu syllabus.

## How To

<Wiki-Video url="https://youtu.be/YtcRO7zceIg" />

### Important Points

- Head, hand and foot are all in sync when you perform the first chudan yoko uke of the two blocking sequences.
- After each mae geri there is a stomp.
- When performing the step-up-and-block between the two morote zuki, maintain the same height as your zenkutsu dachi stances.

### Kata Techniques

- [Jodan Uke](/)
- [Oi Zuki|Jodan Oi Zuki](/)
- [Gedan Barai](/)
- [Chudan Uke](/)
- [Mae Geri|Gedan Mae Geri](/)
- [Fumikomi Geri](/)
- [Hiji Ate](/)
- [Ura Ken Uchi](/)
- [Gyaku Zuki|Chudan Gyaku Zuki](/)
- [Ashi Barai](/)
- [Shuto Uchi](/)
- [Morote Zuki](/)

### Kata Stances

- [Musubi Dachi](/)
- [Sanchin Dachi](/)
- [Han Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Shiko Dachi](/)
- [Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Hachiji Dachi](/)
- [Heiko Dachi](/)

### Dan Grade Changes

- The chudan yoko uke are muchimi.
- The age uke are more circular in their movements.
- The block between the morote zuki is a otoshi uke instead of chudan yoko uke.

## Bunkai

See [Gekisai Dai Ichi (Bunkai)](/bunkai/gekisai-dai-ichi)
