docs/kata/gekisai-dai-ni.md, before:

---
name: Gekisai Dai Ni
kanji: <ruby><rb>撃</rb><rt>げき</rt><rb>砕</rb><rt>さい</rt><rb>第</rb><rt>だい</rt><rb>二</rb><rt>に</rt></ruby>
origin: Okinawa
creator: Chojun Miyagi
createdon: 1940s
learnt_at: 9th Kyu (Blue Belt)
grading: 8th Kyu and above

categories:
  - Kata
---

# Gekisai Dai Ni

<Infobox/>

## Name Meaning

Taken literally, Gekisai（撃砕）means "Pulverising​" and Dai Ni（第二）means "Number Two". When you interpret the kanji characters for 'Gekisai' individually, you get something more like "Attack & Destroy". The "number two" comes from the fact that it is a part of a pair of kata, the other being Gekisai Dai Ichi（撃砕第一）

## Kata History

## How To

<Wiki-Video url="https://youtu.be/7ATBdHJcq-g" />

### Important Points

### Kata Techniques

- [Jodan Uke](/)
- [Oi Zuki|Jodan Oi Zuki](/)
- [Gedan Barai](/)
- [Chudan Uke](/)
- [Mae Geri|Gedan Mae Geri](/)
- [Fumikomi Geri](/)
- [Hiji Ate](/)
- [Ura Ken Uchi](/)
- [Gyaku Zuki|Chudan Gyaku Zuki](/)
- [Ashi Barai](/)
- [Haito Uchi](/)
- [Hiki Uke](/)
- [Tora Guchi](/)

### Kata Stances

- [Musubi Dachi](/)
- [Sanchin Dachi](/)
- [Han Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Shiko Dachi](/)
- [Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Hachiji Dachi](/)
- [Neko Ashi Dachi](/)

### Dan Grade Changes

## Bunkai

See [Gekisai Dai Ni (Bunkai)](/bunkai/gekisai-dai-ni)

Commit message:

Comment out unused sections. Added in a bit of kata info on various pages. Removed dan grade changes section from kata that are dan grade kata

docs/kata/gekisai-dai-ni.md, after:

---
name: Gekisai Dai Ni
kanji: <ruby><rb>撃</rb><rt>げき</rt><rb>砕</rb><rt>さい</rt><rb>第</rb><rt>だい</rt><rb>二</rb><rt>に</rt></ruby>
origin: Okinawa
creator: Chojun Miyagi
createdon: 1940s
learnt_at: 9th Kyu (Blue Belt)
grading: 8th Kyu and above

categories:
  - Kata
---

# Gekisai Dai Ni

<Infobox/>

## Name Meaning

Taken literally, Gekisai（撃砕）means "Pulverising​" and Dai Ni（第二）means "Number Two". When you interpret the kanji characters for 'Gekisai' individually, you get something more like "Attack & Destroy". The "number two" comes from the fact that it is a part of a pair of kata, the other being Gekisai Dai Ichi（撃砕第一）

## Kata History

Created in the 1940s by Chojun Miyagi. It's a more advanced version of [Gekisai Dai Ichi](/kata/gekisai-dai-ichi), introducing open handed techniques.

## How To

<Wiki-Video url="https://youtu.be/7ATBdHJcq-g" />

<!-- ### Important Points -->

### Kata Techniques

- [Jodan Uke](/)
- [Oi Zuki|Jodan Oi Zuki](/)
- [Gedan Barai](/)
- [Chudan Uke](/)
- [Mae Geri|Gedan Mae Geri](/)
- [Fumikomi Geri](/)
- [Hiji Ate](/)
- [Ura Ken Uchi](/)
- [Gyaku Zuki|Chudan Gyaku Zuki](/)
- [Ashi Barai](/)
- [Haito Uchi](/)
- [Hiki Uke](/)
- [Tora Guchi](/)

### Kata Stances

- [Musubi Dachi](/)
- [Sanchin Dachi](/)
- [Han Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Shiko Dachi](/)
- [Zenkutsu Dachi](/)
- [Hachiji Dachi](/)
- [Neko Ashi Dachi](/)

<!-- ### Dan Grade Changes -->

## Bunkai

See [Gekisai Dai Ni (Bunkai)](/bunkai/gekisai-dai-ni)
