docs/yakusoku-kumite/yakusoku-kumite-iogkfnz.md, before:

---
noFooter: true
---

# IOGKFNZ Yakusoku Kumite notes

This is essentially a copy-paste from the IOGKFNZ Instructor's manual. It's here purely for citation purposes. There may be some errors in spelling bu

## Yakusoku Kumite no 1

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Migi jodan hiki-uke, shuto-uchi, ashi-bari

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Migi chudan yoko-uke, gedan-zuki, shuto-uchi & ashi-bari together, (kakato fumi-geri after take down)

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Morote hiki-uke (catching wrist & shoulder) ashi-bari & pull down then kick or punch after take down.

Semete (attacker) - Migi jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari jodan age-uke (zenkutsu-dachi), jodan gyaku-zuki, step forward 45degrees into shiko-dachi, left blocking arm catching opponents wrist, droping down into koshi-dachi (feet in musubi-dachi position), pull arm down, right arm ari-uke to sweep leg, push knee into opponents hip & punch jodan.

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Migi shuto-uke, hidari shuto-uchi, ashi-bari, take down

## Yakusoku Kumite no 2

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - In an instant drop down & forward into koshi-dachi, catch leg at heel (outside) and knee (inside), with a pull & push action take down & finish fumi komi-geri.

Semete (attacker) - Shoulder charge to solar plexus
Ukete (counter) - Left arm slide under opponents right arm, simultaneously, right and catch & press behind neck, throw using opponents forward motion with tai-sabaki in a spiral action & release.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki, gyaku-zuki combination
Ukete (counter) - Morote shotei-uke, then strike with both hands morote shotei-zuki to shoulders.

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari shotei yoko-uke, migi haito-uchi, grip the right collar tightly & strike sokuto-geri with your right thigh to opponents right thigh taking them to ground, finish off with a punch.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Gedan uchi-bari, haito-uchi.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 3

Semete (attacker) - Migi jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Migi jodan age-uke (step forward into shiko-dachi), kinteki-uchi, catch with your front foot your opponents leg & throw, fumi komi-geri.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan age-uke, kinteki-uchi, catch your opponents wrist, pick your opponent up onto your shoulders & then down with hari-uke.

Semete (attacker) - Migi jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari jodan age-uke, stepping forward into shiko-dachi, striking gedan nukite-zuki, use your blocking arm to attack opponents throat, front leg catch behind attackers knee & throw (scissor action).

Semete (attacker) - Throat grab (two hands)
Ukete (counter) - Step back before opponent grips, morote age-uke, step in & attack with a shoulder charge to stomach & quickly pull up and back on opponents knee & throw, finish with fumi komi-geri.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 4

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Morote hiki-uke, shisochin kata elbow lock & throw technique (inside/outside)

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Gedan harai-uke, scoop leg, chudan shotei-oshi pushing opponent back, ashi-barai & throw, punch jodan.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Hasami-uke, (as in sanseru) kick to point behind groin, insert foot between legs, lift knee onto opponents leg & force downwards to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Mawashi-geri
Ukete (counter) - Jodan juji-uke, right hand push against opponents right arm & grab their collar, hook right leg behind the supporting leg lift & throw, finish fumi komi-geri.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 5

Semete (attacker) - Kizami or mae ken-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari yoko shotei-uke, migi shotei-zuki, move quickly forward & down keeping your body close to your opponent, catch their left heel pulling up & back while simultaneously pushing down with your right arm & throw, finish nukite-zuki or shotei-otoshi.

Semete (attacker) ukete (counter) - Migi jodan furi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari jodan yoko-uke, migi palm attack to ear (seiyunchin kata), left hand catch opponents wrist, right hand round their neck, turn your hips into your opponents hips, support attackers weight over hips & throw koshi-guruma (neck throw).

Semete (attacker) ukete (counter) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan age-uke, kinteki-uchi, twist your hips into your opponents, grasping your left hand onto opponents right wrist, right hand grasping under their left shoulder, support attackers weight over your hips & throw koshi-nage (hip throw).

Semete (attacker) ukete (counter) - Shoulder tackle or choke attack (2 hands)
Ukete (counter) - As opponent tackles, hiza geri to chest, your opponent will catch your knee, grab their belt & fall back & throw (tomo-nage) (choke) as attack comes in fast, throw a hand in the air as a decoy, simultaneously drop your body into koshi-dachi & as your opponent loses balance take weight on shoulders & throw backwards.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 6

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Gedan sukui-uke, ashi-barai, throw & nukite-zuki.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan mawashi-geri
Ukete (counter) - Soto yoko juji-uke, grip behind neck, hiza-geri, throw in a spiral motion, boshi-ken to the eyes.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan yoko-geri
Ukete (counter) - Yoko juji-uke, step behind, catch the collar/hair, kick or ashi-barai back of leg & pull down.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 7

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Tai-sabaki & pivot to the side, block with wrists in a scissor action (as in seiyunchin kata) step across, twist body & wrist to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Pushing or gripping lapels (both hands)
Ukete (counter) - Grip fingers, pull down & out on joints, hiza-geri or hiji-ate.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan morote hiki-uke, chudan shotei-zuki, throw arm circular motion to take down.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan morote hiki-uke, hiza-geri, otoshi hiji-ate.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 8

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan morote hiki-uke, catch wrist & elbow, lock arm, throw backwards.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan hiki-uke (inside), jodan gyaku shotei-zuki, grasp opponents wrist, step outside front foot & ashi-waza (sweeping the leg), simultaneously drawing your inside elbow down your opponents arm to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hiki-uke (outside), shuto-uchi, at the same time you go down with your opponent to ground & ne-waza, (apply ground techniques i.e. choke, elbow, wrist locks etc, gekisai dai ichi)

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki, jodan gyaku-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Chudan hiki-uke & catch, jodan hiki-uke & catch, right hand turn,lift left hand & simultaneously turn your body to lock the joints to throw (as in sepai).

## Yakusoku Kumite no 9

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Morote jodan hiki-uke (outside), combination shoulder & elbow lock, twist wrist & throw.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hiki-uke, reverse lock elbow from underneath (as in seisan kata), elbow to face & throw.

Semete (attacker) - Grip lapel (one hand)
Ukete (counter) - Palm strike to the ear, grip fingers or wrist & bend back, simultaneously turn & move backwards to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Grip lapel (2 hands)
Ukete (counter) - Morote age-uke, grip fingers of one hand & push forward then back in a circular motion to take down. (if the opponent has secured a grip, strike to eyes with nukite then age-uke)

## Yakusoku Kumite no 10

Semete (attacker) - 2 hand grip wrist or arm
Ukete (counter) - Groin or leg strike, turn forearm close to body, turn your body & at the same time lock the arm then ne-waza (ground techniques)

Semete (attacker) - Push with one hand
Ukete (counter) - Catch in a scissors action, twist your body around, interlock your fingers over attackers wrist, place the elbow on your shoulder, heel on attackers foot & pull arm down.

Semete (attacker) - Grip body from behind
Ukete (counter) - Turn forearms upwards to break the grip , ushiro hiji-ate, catch elbow & shoulder, lower hips, pull & throw seoi-nage (over the shoulder throw).

Semete (attacker) - Ashi-tori (leg catch)
Ukete (counter) - Pull front foot back, strike ears with palms, twist & throw then ura-uchi to the face.

Commit message:

Some changes to fix spelling and clarify some techniques.

docs/yakusoku-kumite/yakusoku-kumite-iogkfnz.md, after:

---
noFooter: true
---

# IOGKFNZ Yakusoku Kumite notes

This is essentially a copy-paste from the IOGKFNZ Instructor's manual. It's here purely for citation purposes. Any errors in spelling are due to the orignal.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 1

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Migi jodan hiki-uke, shuto-uchi, ashi-bari

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Migi chudan yoko-uke, gedan-zuki, shuto-uchi & ashi-bari together, (kakato fumi-geri after take down)

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Morote hiki-uke (catching wrist & shoulder) ashi-bari & pull down then kick or punch after take down.

Semete (attacker) - Migi jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari jodan age-uke (zenkutsu-dachi), jodan gyaku-zuki, step forward 45degrees into shiko-dachi, left blocking arm catching opponents wrist, droping down into koshi-dachi (feet in musubi-dachi position), pull arm down, right arm ari-uke to sweep leg, push knee into opponents hip & punch jodan.

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Migi shuto-uke, hidari shuto-uchi, ashi-bari, take down

## Yakusoku Kumite no 2

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - In an instant drop down & forward into koshi-dachi, catch leg at heel (outside) and knee (inside), with a pull & push action take down & finish fumi komi-geri.

Semete (attacker) - Shoulder charge to solar plexus
Ukete (counter) - Left arm slide under opponents right arm, simultaneously, right and catch & press behind neck, throw using opponents forward motion with tai-sabaki in a spiral action & release.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki, gyaku-zuki combination
Ukete (counter) - Morote shotei-uke, then strike with both hands morote shotei-zuki to shoulders.

Semete (attacker) - Migi chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari shotei yoko-uke, migi haito-uchi, grip the right collar tightly & strike sokuto-geri with your right thigh to opponents right thigh taking them to ground, finish off with a punch.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Gedan uchi-bari, haito-uchi.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 3

Semete (attacker) - Migi jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Migi jodan age-uke (step forward into shiko-dachi), kinteki-uchi, catch with your front foot your opponents leg & throw, fumi komi-geri.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan age-uke, kinteki-uchi, catch your opponents wrist, pick your opponent up onto your shoulders & then down with hari-uke.

Semete (attacker) - Migi jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari jodan age-uke, stepping forward into shiko-dachi, striking gedan nukite-zuki, use your blocking arm to attack opponents throat, front leg catch behind attackers knee & throw (scissor action).

Semete (attacker) - Throat grab (two hands)
Ukete (counter) - Step back before opponent grips, morote age-uke, step in & attack with a shoulder charge to stomach & quickly pull up and back on opponents knee & throw, finish with fumi komi-geri.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 4

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Morote hiki-uke, shisochin kata elbow lock & throw technique (inside/outside)

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Gedan harai-uke, scoop leg, chudan shotei-oshi pushing opponent back, ashi-barai & throw, punch jodan.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Hasami-uke, (as in sanseru) kick to point behind groin, insert foot between legs, lift knee onto opponents leg & force downwards to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Mawashi-geri
Ukete (counter) - Jodan juji-uke, right hand push against opponents right arm & grab their collar, hook right leg behind the supporting leg lift & throw, finish fumi komi-geri.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 5

Semete (attacker) - Kizami or mae ken-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari yoko shotei-uke, migi shotei-zuki, move quickly forward & down keeping your body close to your opponent, catch their left heel pulling up & back while simultaneously pushing down with your right arm & throw, finish nukite-zuki or shotei-otoshi.

Semete (attacker) ukete (counter) - Migi jodan furi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hidari jodan yoko-uke, migi palm attack to ear (seiyunchin kata), left hand catch opponents wrist, right hand round their neck, turn your hips into your opponents hips, support attackers weight over hips & throw koshi-guruma (neck throw).

Semete (attacker) ukete (counter) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan age-uke, kinteki-uchi, twist your hips into your opponents, grasping your left hand onto opponents right wrist, right hand grasping under their left shoulder, support attackers weight over your hips & throw koshi-nage (hip throw).

Semete (attacker) ukete (counter) - Shoulder tackle or choke attack (2 hands)
Ukete (counter) - As opponent tackles, hiza geri to chest, your opponent will catch your knee, grab their belt & fall back & throw (tomo-nage) (choke) as attack comes in fast, throw a hand in the air as a decoy, simultaneously drop your body into koshi-dachi & as your opponent loses balance take weight on shoulders & throw backwards.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 6

Semete (attacker) - Chudan mae-geri
Ukete (counter) - Gedan sukui-uke, ashi-barai, throw & nukite-zuki.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan mawashi-geri
Ukete (counter) - Soto yoko juji-uke, grip behind neck, hiza-geri, throw in a spiral motion, boshi-ken to the eyes.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan yoko-geri
Ukete (counter) - Yoko juji-uke, step behind, catch the collar/hair, kick or ashi-barai back of leg & pull down.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 7

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Tai-sabaki & pivot to the side, block with wrists in a scissor action (as in seiyunchin kata) step across, twist body & wrist to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Pushing or gripping lapels (both hands)
Ukete (counter) - Grip fingers, pull down & out on joints, hiza-geri or hiji-ate.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan morote hiki-uke, chudan shotei-zuki, throw arm circular motion to take down.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan morote hiki-uke, hiza-geri, otoshi hiji-ate.

## Yakusoku Kumite no 8

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan morote hiki-uke, catch wrist & elbow, lock arm, throw backwards.

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Jodan hiki-uke (inside), jodan gyaku shotei-zuki, grasp opponents wrist, step outside front foot & ashi-waza (sweeping the leg), simultaneously drawing your inside elbow down your opponents arm to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hiki-uke (outside), shuto-uchi, at the same time you go down with your opponent to ground & ne-waza, (apply ground techniques i.e. choke, elbow, wrist locks etc, gekisai dai ichi)

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki, jodan gyaku-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Chudan hiki-uke & catch, jodan hiki-uke & catch, right hand turn,lift left hand & simultaneously turn your body to lock the joints to throw (as in sepai).

## Yakusoku Kumite no 9

Semete (attacker) - Jodan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Morote jodan hiki-uke (outside), combination shoulder & elbow lock, twist wrist & throw.

Semete (attacker) - Chudan oi-zuki
Ukete (counter) - Hiki-uke, reverse lock elbow from underneath (as in seisan kata), elbow to face & throw.

Semete (attacker) - Grip lapel (one hand)
Ukete (counter) - Palm strike to the ear, grip fingers or wrist & bend back, simultaneously turn & move backwards to throw.

Semete (attacker) - Grip lapel (2 hands)
Ukete (counter) - Morote age-uke, grip fingers of one hand & push forward then back in a circular motion to take down. (if the opponent has secured a grip, strike to eyes with nukite then age-uke)

## Yakusoku Kumite no 10

Semete (attacker) - 2 hand grip wrist or arm
Ukete (counter) - Groin or leg strike, turn forearm close to body, turn your body & at the same time lock the arm then ne-waza (ground techniques)

Semete (attacker) - Push with one hand
Ukete (counter) - Catch in a scissors action, twist your body around, interlock your fingers over attackers wrist, place the elbow on your shoulder, heel on attackers foot & pull arm down.

Semete (attacker) - Grip body from behind
Ukete (counter) - Turn forearms upwards to break the grip , ushiro hiji-ate, catch elbow & shoulder, lower hips, pull & throw seoi-nage (over the shoulder throw).

Semete (attacker) - Ashi-tori (leg catch)
Ukete (counter) - Pull front foot back, strike ears with palms, twist & throw then ura-uchi to the face.
