docs/ceremonies.md, before:

---
title: Ceremonies
categories:
---

In training we begin with a ceremony and close with one. These are performed mostly in Japanese and there are set phrases used. For help with pronouncing and reading the Japanese, [click here](/japanese.md).

## Opening Ceremony

<ruby><rb>集</rb><rb>合</rb><rt>しゅう</rt><rt>ごう</rt></ruby>！ (shugo) : Line up!

<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt>をつけ</ruby>！ (ki o tsuke) : Attention!

<ruby><rb>正座</rb><rt>せいざ</rt></ruby> (seiza) : Sit in [[Seiza]]

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt></ruby>　(mokuso)　- Mediate (with eyes closed)

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt>やめ</ruby> (mokuso yame) : Finish meditation

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby> (shomen ni, rei) : Bow to the front

<ruby><rb>先生</rb><rt>せんせい</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby>　(sensei ni, rei) : Bow to sensei

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>　(shomen) : Face the front

<ruby><rb>立</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>って　(tatte) : Stand up

## Closing Ceremony

<ruby><rb>集</rb><rb>合</rb><rt>しゅう</rt><rt>ごう</rt></ruby>！ (shugo) : Line up!

<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt>をつけ</ruby>！ (ki o tsuke) : Attention!

<ruby><rb>正座</rb><rt>せいざ</rt></ruby> (seiza) : Sit in [[Seiza]]

: Dojo Kun

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt></ruby>　(mokuso)　- Mediate (with eyes closed)

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt>やめ</ruby> (mokuso yame) : Finish meditation

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby> (shomen ni, rei) : Bow to the front

<ruby><rb>先生</rb><rt>せんせい</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby>　(sensei ni, rei) : Bow to Sensei

お<ruby><rb>互</rb><rt>たが</rt></ruby>いに、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby>　(otagai ni, rei) : Bow to each other

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>　(shomen) : Face the front

- Club notices and events are spoken about

- Intructors bow and stand up, everyone else follows afterwards

## Dojo-Kun

### English

(Speak phrase, other members will repeat after you)

- Hitotsu, Respect others!
- Hitotsu, Be courageous!
- Hitotsu, Train your mind and body!
- Hitotsu, Practice daily and protect traditional karate!
- Hitotsu, Strive to reach the essence of Goju Ryu!
- Hitotsu, Never give up!

### Japanese

There are two versions I've come across for IOGKF's dojo-kun, one hung on the wall in the [[Morio Higaonna]] Sensei's dojo in Okinawa, and the one on the IOGKFNZ website.

#### (IOGKFNZ)

This one most closely resembles what we say in English, however the English version is still rather plain/simplified in comparison.

- 一つ、礼儀を重んずること : Hold manners/courtesy in high regard. aka Be courteous and respectful.
- 一つ、勇気を養うこと : Cultivate courage
- 一つ、心身を練磨し : Train/cultivate your mind and body
- 一つ、伝統空手を守り日々の鍛錬を怠らず常に研究工夫をすること : Through daily practice and constant research/study without negligence, protect traditional Karate. (There is also a meaning of "solving" or "figuring out Karate" in there but I'm not sure how to translate that nicely.)
- 一つ、剛柔流空手の真髄を極めること : Investigate thoroughly/master the essence of Goju Ryu Karate
- 一つ、不撓不屈の精神を養うこと : Cultivate an indomitable spirit

#### (Honbu Dojo)

This version is hung on the wall in Higaonna Sensei's dojo, I'm not sure why it differs from the IOGKF version but the meaning is along the same lines.

- 一つ、礼儀を重んずること : Hold manners/courtesy in high regard. aka Be courteous and respectful.
- 一つ、心身の錬磨に励むこと : Strive/endeavour to train your mind and body
- 一つ、日々の鍛錬怠らず伝統空手を守ること : Training daily without negligence and protect traditional Karate
- 一つ、剛柔流空手道の真髄を探究すること : Research the/enquire into the essence of Goju Ryu Karate-do (the "do" in Karate-do refers to karate as a "path" of self improvement, for more info on this look into 'Budo' (武道）)
- : 一つ、不撓不屈の精神を養うこと : Cultivate an indomitable spirit

---

{{Main_Navbox}}

Commit message:

Add some pages to important section in footer. Add section on meditation to ceremonies page

docs/ceremonies.md, after:

---
title: Ceremonies

categories:
  - Important
---

We start and end most of our training sessions with opening and closing ceremonies. These are performed mostly in Japanese and there are set phrases used. For help with pronouncing and reading the Japanese, [click here](/japanese.md).

## Meditation

Known in Japanese as Mokuso (<ruby><rb>目</rb><rb>測</rb><rt>もく</rt><rt>そう</rt></ruby>), meditation is a regular part of our Karate training.

We do it during our opening and closing ceremonies, and it should be taken as an opportunity to clear your mind and center yourself.

## Opening Ceremony

<ruby><rb>集</rb><rb>合</rb><rt>しゅう</rt><rt>ごう</rt></ruby>！ (shugo) : Line up!

<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt>をつけ</ruby>！ (ki o tsuke) : Attention!

<ruby><rb>正座</rb><rt>せいざ</rt></ruby> (seiza) : Sit in [[Seiza]]

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt></ruby>　(mokuso)　- Mediate (with eyes closed)

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt>やめ</ruby> (mokuso yame) : Finish meditation

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby> (shomen ni, rei) : Bow to the front

<ruby><rb>先生</rb><rt>せんせい</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby>　(sensei ni, rei) : Bow to sensei

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>　(shomen) : Face the front

<ruby><rb>立</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>って　(tatte) : Stand up

## Closing Ceremony

<ruby><rb>集</rb><rb>合</rb><rt>しゅう</rt><rt>ごう</rt></ruby>！ (shugo) : Line up!

<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt>をつけ</ruby>！ (ki o tsuke) : Attention!

<ruby><rb>正座</rb><rt>せいざ</rt></ruby> (seiza) : Sit in [[Seiza]]

: Dojo Kun

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt></ruby>　(mokuso)　- Mediate (with eyes closed)

<ruby><rb>黙想</rb><rt>もくそう</rt>やめ</ruby> (mokuso yame) : Finish meditation

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby> (shomen ni, rei) : Bow to the front

<ruby><rb>先生</rb><rt>せんせい</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby>　(sensei ni, rei) : Bow to Sensei

お<ruby><rb>互</rb><rt>たが</rt></ruby>いに、<ruby><rb>礼</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby>　(otagai ni, rei) : Bow to each other

<ruby><rb>正面</rb><rt>しょうめん</rt></ruby>　(shomen) : Face the front

- Club notices and events are spoken about

- Intructors bow and stand up, everyone else follows afterwards

## Dojo-Kun

### English

(Speak phrase, other members will repeat after you)

- Hitotsu, Respect others!
- Hitotsu, Be courageous!
- Hitotsu, Train your mind and body!
- Hitotsu, Practice daily and protect traditional karate!
- Hitotsu, Strive to reach the essence of Goju Ryu!
- Hitotsu, Never give up!

### Japanese

There are two versions I've come across for IOGKF's dojo-kun, one hung on the wall in the [[Morio Higaonna]] Sensei's dojo in Okinawa, and the one on the IOGKFNZ website.

#### (IOGKFNZ)

This one most closely resembles what we say in English, however the English version is still rather plain/simplified in comparison.

- 一つ、礼儀を重んずること : Hold manners/courtesy in high regard. aka Be courteous and respectful.
- 一つ、勇気を養うこと : Cultivate courage
- 一つ、心身を練磨し : Train/cultivate your mind and body
- 一つ、伝統空手を守り日々の鍛錬を怠らず常に研究工夫をすること : Through daily practice and constant research/study without negligence, protect traditional Karate. (There is also a meaning of "solving" or "figuring out Karate" in there but I'm not sure how to translate that nicely.)
- 一つ、剛柔流空手の真髄を極めること : Investigate thoroughly/master the essence of Goju Ryu Karate
- 一つ、不撓不屈の精神を養うこと : Cultivate an indomitable spirit

#### (Honbu Dojo)

This version is hung on the wall in Higaonna Sensei's dojo, I'm not sure why it differs from the IOGKF version but the meaning is along the same lines.

- 一つ、礼儀を重んずること : Hold manners/courtesy in high regard. aka Be courteous and respectful.
- 一つ、心身の錬磨に励むこと : Strive/endeavour to train your mind and body
- 一つ、日々の鍛錬怠らず伝統空手を守ること : Training daily without negligence and protect traditional Karate
- 一つ、剛柔流空手道の真髄を探究すること : Research the/enquire into the essence of Goju Ryu Karate-do (the "do" in Karate-do refers to karate as a "path" of self improvement, for more info on this look into 'Budo' (武道）)
- : 一つ、不撓不屈の精神を養うこと : Cultivate an indomitable spirit

---

{{Main_Navbox}}
